#separator:tab
#html:true
#deck:AI::CSC2114::Ch05 Games
In minimax, what does MAX want and what does MIN want?	MAX tries to maximize the utility; MIN tries to minimize it (zero-sum game)
State the minimax value rule for a MAX node and a MIN node.	MAX node value = max of children's values; MIN node value = min of children's values
Give minimax's time and space complexity.	O(b^m) time, O(bm) space (b=branching factor, m=max depth)
What is alpha in alpha-beta pruning?	The best value MAX can guarantee so far along the current path (starts at -infinity)
What is beta in alpha-beta pruning?	The best value MIN can guarantee so far along the current path (starts at +infinity)
State the beta-cutoff rule.	At a MAX node, if a child's value >= beta, stop exploring further children — MIN would never let play reach here
State the alpha-cutoff rule.	At a MIN node, if a child's value <= alpha, stop exploring further children — MAX would never let play reach here
Does alpha-beta pruning ever change the final move chosen compared to plain minimax?	No — it produces the exact same result, only skipping provably irrelevant branches
Why does move ordering matter for alpha-beta efficiency?	Exploring the best moves first produces more cutoffs, approaching the best-case branching factor of sqrt(b); poor ordering gives no benefit over plain minimax
What is an evaluation function used for in game-playing programs?	Estimating how good a non-terminal state is when full minimax to terminal states is computationally infeasible (depth-limited/heuristic minimax)
What is the horizon effect?	A danger just beyond the search depth cutoff gets missed or underestimated because the cutoff happens right before it becomes visible
What is quiescence search?	Extending search further at "unstable" positions (e.g. right after a capture) so evaluation isn't made at a misleading moment
What is Expectimax and when is it used?	Minimax extended with chance nodes whose value is the probability-weighted expected value over random outcomes; used for stochastic games involving chance (e.g. dice)
