#separator:tab
#html:true
#deck:AI::CSC2114::Ch19 Machine Learning
Define supervised learning.	Learning a function f: X→Y from labeled input-output example pairs
What's the difference between classification and regression?	Classification predicts a discrete/categorical output; regression predicts a continuous numeric output
What is overfitting?	When a model fits the training data (including noise) so closely that it performs worse on new, unseen data
What is underfitting?	When a model is too simple to capture the real pattern, performing poorly on both training and test data
State the formula for entropy of a set S with class proportions pi.	H(S) = − Σ pi log2(pi)
State the formula for Information Gain of splitting S on attribute A.	IG(S,A) = H(S) − Σ_v (|Sv|/|S|) · H(Sv), where Sv is the subset with A=v
In ID3 decision tree building, which attribute is chosen to split on at each node?	The attribute with the highest Information Gain
Name two ways to prevent a decision tree from overfitting.	Pruning (remove branches that don't help validation performance) and early stopping (stop splitting when IG is negligible or too few examples remain)
What does the No Free Lunch theorem say?	Averaged over all possible problems, no single learning algorithm outperforms all others — algorithm choice must fit the specific problem (inductive bias)
Why is k-NN called a "lazy" learning method?	It has no explicit training phase — all computation (finding nearest neighbours) happens at prediction time
How does bagging reduce error, and what does Random Forest add to it?	Bagging trains models independently on bootstrapped (resampled with replacement) data subsets and averages/votes to reduce variance; Random Forest additionally randomizes the feature subset considered at each split
How does boosting differ from bagging?	Boosting trains models sequentially, each new model focusing on examples the previous ones got wrong (reweighting), reducing bias rather than variance
What is regularization used for?	Adding a penalty for model complexity (e.g. L1/L2 on weights) to discourage overfitting
What is k-fold cross-validation?	Splitting data into k parts, training on k-1 and testing on the remaining one, rotating and averaging results for a more reliable generalization estimate than a single train/test split
