#separator:tab
#html:true
#deck:AI::CSC2114::Ch02 Intelligent Agents
Define an agent function.	A mapping from every possible percept sequence to an action — describes the agent's behaviour abstractly, as opposed to the agent program that actually implements it
What is a percept sequence, as opposed to a single percept?	The complete history of everything the agent has perceived up to now, versus a single percept which is just the current sensor input
State the 4 factors that determine whether an agent's action is rational.	The performance measure, the agent's prior knowledge of the environment, the actions available, and the agent's percept sequence to date
Why should a performance measure be defined in terms of environment outcomes rather than agent behaviour?	Defining it in terms of desired outcomes (e.g. how clean the floor is) avoids the agent gaming a proxy metric of behaviour (e.g. did it visit square A then B) instead of achieving the real goal
What does PEAS stand for?	Performance measure, Environment, Actuators, Sensors
List the 6 dimensions used to classify task environments.	Fully vs partially observable, single-agent vs multi-agent, deterministic vs stochastic, episodic vs sequential, static vs dynamic, discrete vs continuous
Is chess fully or partially observable, and is it deterministic or stochastic?	Fully observable and deterministic
Is poker fully or partially observable, and why?	Partially observable — you cannot see the other players' cards
Why are partial observability and stochasticity independent properties, not the same thing?	A partially observable environment can still be deterministic (you just can't see all of the state); a fully observable environment can still be stochastic (you see everything but outcomes are still random, e.g. visible dice)
Distinguish episodic from sequential environments.	Episodic: each percept-action pair (episode) is independent of previous ones, e.g. image classification. Sequential: the current decision affects future decisions, e.g. chess
What does a simple reflex agent base its action choice on, and what is its main limitation?	Only the current percept, via condition-action rules; it fails in partially observable environments since it has no memory of what it can't currently see and can get stuck in loops
What does a model-based reflex agent add over a simple reflex agent?	An internal state that tracks unobserved aspects of the world, updated via a model of how the world evolves and how the agent's actions affect it — better handles partial observability
What does a goal-based agent add over a model-based reflex agent?	An explicit goal (desirable situations) and the ability to consider future action sequences (search/planning) to achieve it, rather than fixed condition-action rules
What does a utility-based agent add over a goal-based agent?	A utility function mapping states to a real number reflecting degree of happiness/preference, allowing it to weigh tradeoffs between competing or partially conflicting goals, not just achieve a binary goal
What four components make up a learning agent?	Performance element (the actual acting agent, of any prior type), learning element (improves behaviour from experience), critic (evaluates performance against a fixed external standard), problem generator (suggests exploratory actions)
