#separator:tab
#html:true
#deck:AI::CSC2114::Ch04 Complex Search
Why does local search use much less memory than Ch.3's tree/graph search?	It only tracks the current state (and maybe a small fixed set of parallel states), not the whole search tree or explored set, so memory use is constant regardless of state space size
Define a local maximum in hill-climbing.	A state better than all its neighbours, but not the best possible state overall (global maximum) — the algorithm gets stuck here since it never accepts a worse move
Distinguish a ridge from a plateau in hill-climbing.	A ridge is a sequence of local maxima that's hard to navigate because the uphill direction doesn't align with any single available move; a plateau is a flat area where all neighbours have equal value, giving no clear uphill direction
What does random-restart hill-climbing do, and why is it eventually complete?	Restarts the search from a new random state whenever stuck; given enough restarts, some random starting state will eventually lie in the basin of attraction of the global optimum
What does simulated annealing's temperature schedule control?	The probability of accepting a worse move; starts high (more willing to accept worse moves, escaping local maxima) and decreases over time, converging toward greedy hill-climbing-like behaviour as temperature approaches zero
How does local beam search differ from running k independent hill-climbing searches?	It shares information across the k states — at each step it generates successors from ALL k states combined and keeps the best k overall, not the best successor per individual parent, allowing the search to concentrate on the most promising areas
What problem can local beam search suffer from, and what does stochastic beam search do about it?	The k states can lose diversity and cluster in one region; stochastic beam search adds randomness to which successors survive, improving diversity (analogous to natural selection)
Define crossover in a genetic algorithm.	Combining two parent chromosomes at a random crossover point, producing offspring that mix both parents' genetic material — the mechanism for combining good partial solutions from different individuals
Define mutation in a genetic algorithm, and what does it contribute?	Randomly flipping a small number of bits in offspring; maintains diversity and allows escaping local optima that crossover alone couldn't reach
In an AND-OR search tree, what must be true at an OR node vs an AND node for a solution?	At an OR node (agent's choice), only ONE branch needs to succeed; at an AND node (nature's/environment's response to a nondeterministic action), the plan must work for EVERY possible outcome branch
What is a belief state?	The set of all states the agent considers possible given its percept history so far, used when the environment is not fully observable
What is sensorless (conformant) search, and why can it sometimes still find a working plan?	Search with NO sensors at all, needing a fixed action sequence that achieves the goal from every state in the initial belief state; plans can still work because actions can 'funnel' many possible states toward the same outcome regardless of the true starting state
What is an online search agent, and why can't it precompute a full solution before acting?	An agent that interleaves computation and action in an environment it doesn't have a prior model of; it must physically explore to discover the state space, since it can't 'teleport' to try states it hasn't reached yet
