#separator:tab
#html:true
#deck:AI::CSC2114::Ch06 CSPs
List the 3 formal components of a CSP.	Variables, Domains, Constraints
What is "early failure detection" in backtracking search?	Checking constraints as soon as a variable is assigned, rather than only after a full assignment is generated, so invalid branches are abandoned immediately
What does the Minimum Remaining Values (MRV) heuristic choose?	The unassigned variable with the fewest legal values left in its domain (fail fast)
What does the Degree heuristic choose, and when is it used?	The variable involved in the most constraints with other unassigned variables; used to break MRV ties
What does the Least Constraining Value (LCV) heuristic choose?	The value for the chosen variable that rules out the fewest choices for neighbouring variables (keeps options open)
Do MRV/degree and LCV choose a variable or a value?	MRV and degree heuristic choose which VARIABLE to assign next; LCV chooses which VALUE to try for it
Define arc consistency for an arc X->Y.	For every value in X's domain, there must be some value in Y's domain that satisfies the constraint between them; otherwise remove the offending value from X
Describe the AC-3 algorithm's core loop.	Maintain a queue of arcs; pop an arc and enforce arc consistency; if a domain changes, re-add all arcs pointing into that variable to the queue; repeat until the queue is empty or a domain becomes empty
What is AC-3's worst-case time complexity?	O(n^2 * d^3) for n variables and max domain size d
What is the min-conflicts heuristic?	Starting from a complete assignment, repeatedly pick a conflicted variable and reassign it to the value minimizing constraint violations — a local search / hill-climbing approach
Why can a tree-structured CSP be solved in linear time?	Because it has no cycles in its constraint graph, allowing a two-pass algorithm (directional arc consistency then direct assignment) with no backtracking needed, O(n*d^2)
What is cutset conditioning?	Fixing values for a small set of variables (the cycle cutset) to break all cycles in a near-tree constraint graph, turning the rest into a fast tree-structured problem
