#separator:tab
#html:true
#deck:Databases::CSC2107::Ch05 Relational Algebra
Distinguish Selection (sigma) from Projection (pi) in relational algebra.	Selection picks ROWS matching a condition (like SQL's WHERE); Projection picks COLUMNS (like SQL's SELECT list), removing duplicate resulting rows
What does 'union-compatible' mean, and which operations require it?	Same number of attributes with matching domains attribute-by-attribute; required for union, intersection, and difference (but NOT Cartesian product)
Define natural join, and how is it derived from basic operations?	An equijoin on all common attribute names with the duplicate common column removed; derived as a projection of a selection (matching the common attributes) applied to the Cartesian product of the two relations
Distinguish left outer join, right outer join, and full outer join.	Left: keeps all rows from the left relation, nulls for unmatched right side; Right: keeps all rows from the right relation, nulls for unmatched left side; Full: keeps all rows from both, nulls wherever there's no match on either side
What is a semijoin, and how does its result differ from a regular join?	Returns only the rows (and only the attributes) of R that would have matched in a join with S — unlike a regular join, only R's attributes appear in the output, not S's
What does the division operation R ÷ S compute, and give an example use case.	Tuples from R's remaining attributes associated with EVERY tuple in S; example: find students who have taken EVERY course in a given department
What does Codd's theorem say about relational algebra and relational calculus?	They are provably equivalent in expressive power — anything expressible in one is expressible in the other
Distinguish tuple relational calculus from domain relational calculus.	Tuple relational calculus: variables range over whole tuples; domain relational calculus: variables range over individual domain (attribute) values
What is a theta join, and how does an equijoin relate to it?	A theta join combines rows from R and S where a given condition (theta) holds, using any comparison operator; an equijoin is a theta join specifically using equality (=)
What does the Cartesian product (x) operation produce, and how do degree/cardinality change?	Every row of R combined with every row of S (all combinations); degree adds (sum of both relations' attribute counts), cardinality multiplies (product of both relations' row counts)
