#separator:tab
#html:true
#deck:Databases::CSC2107::Ch20 Security and Administration
Define database security.	The mechanisms that protect the database against intentional or accidental threats, covering confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data
List the 5 categories of database threat.	Theft and fraud, loss of confidentiality, loss of privacy, loss of integrity, loss of availability
Distinguish accidental threats from deliberate threats, and why does this distinction matter?	Accidental: hardware/software failure, human error; deliberate: malicious attacks. It matters because countermeasures differ — e.g. backups address accidental loss, access control addresses deliberate theft
What does authorization mean, and how does it differ from access control?	Authorization is the granting/verification of a right or privilege to a user; access control is the mechanism that enforces those granted rights at each specific operation
How do views function as a security control?	They restrict a user's access to only the rows/columns relevant to them, hiding the rest of the underlying data
What does encryption protect against?	Data being readable without the correct decryption key, protecting it both in storage and in transit
What does RAID protect against specifically, as a countermeasure category?	Disk (hardware) failure, via redundancy across multiple physical disks — a different threat category than the software-level controls
Distinguish Discretionary Access Control (DAC) from Mandatory Access Control (MAC).	DAC: the owner of an object decides who gets which privileges (implemented via SQL GRANT/REVOKE); MAC: access is governed by a system-wide policy (e.g. security classification levels) that individual owners cannot override
Why does RAID 0 NOT improve reliability despite being a RAID technology?	RAID 0 (striping) improves performance only, with NO redundancy — it actually increases failure risk since any one disk failing loses all data across the array
Distinguish Data Administration (DA) from Database Administration (DBA) in terms of focus.	DA focuses on the data resource at a policy/planning level (more managerial); DBA focuses on the technical implementation and operation of the database(s) (more hands-on)
