#separator:tab
#html:true
#deck:Databases::CSC2107::Ch04 Relational Model
Map these everyday terms to formal relational model terms: table, row, column.	Table = relation, row = tuple, column = attribute
Define degree and cardinality of a relation.	Degree = number of attributes (columns); cardinality = number of tuples (rows)
List the properties a valid relation must satisfy regarding attribute values and tuple order.	Each cell holds one atomic value (no repeating groups); each attribute has a distinct name; attribute order is insignificant; each tuple is distinct (no duplicates); tuple order is insignificant
Define a superkey.	A set of one or more attributes that, taken together, uniquely identifies a tuple in a relation
Define a candidate key, and how does it differ from a superkey?	A minimal superkey — removing any attribute from it would cause it to lose uniqueness; every candidate key is a superkey, but not every superkey is a candidate key (superkeys can have redundant attributes)
Define a primary key and an alternate key.	Primary key: the candidate key chosen as the main identifier for the relation; alternate key: any candidate key NOT chosen as primary
Define a foreign key.	An attribute (or set of attributes) in one relation that matches the candidate key of some relation (possibly the same one), used to link relations together
State entity integrity, including its scope.	In a base relation, no attribute of the PRIMARY KEY may be null — this applies only to the primary key, not to every attribute
State referential integrity, including its null exception.	If a foreign key exists, its value must either match a candidate key value in the referenced relation, OR be entirely null
Why is null not the same as zero or a blank value?	Null represents a value that is currently unknown or not applicable, not an actual value of zero or empty
What is a view?	A virtual/derived relation that doesn't store data itself, but is dynamically computed from one or more base relations via a stored query
Why might a view not be updatable?	If the DBMS can't unambiguously map an update back to the underlying base table(s) — this is typically the case for views involving joins, aggregates, or GROUP BY
